The station of the cross presents, sermons for everyday living, powerful sermons from faithful and inspirational priests.
Our first sermon for today is entitled, Where Are the Peter Damians of Today?
Be faithful unto death,
and I will give you the crown of life.
Revelation chapter 2 verse 10, the name of the Father and of the Son, the Holy Spirit, amen.
By now, most Catholics are probably aware of that rather pointed letter sent to the Pope by one of his Cardinals.
It's the letter where he exhorted the Holy Father in no uncertain terms to acknowledge the depravity so clearly seen by every sensible person.
But for whatever reason, continues unopposed and rarely spoken of, at least in public, by the church's shepherds.
Now, the cardinal who wrote that letter is famous for his candor, but also for being cordial.
He's known for being direct while at the same time, ever remaining a loyal son of the church and maintaining appropriate respect for the person of the Holy Father, as well as the office of the Roman pontiff.
Now, if you're not familiar with the letter, the cardinal pleaded with the pope to eradicate the scourge of homosexuality so prevalent within the clergy, telling the pope that it's quote,
a lethal wound festering in the body of the church.
In order to heal the church, the cardinal said this disease must be removed.
Now, the cardinal that I'm referring to here is, of course, St. Peter Damian.
And the pope is St. Leo the 9th.
Each of these men lived in the 11th century, approximately 1,000 years ago.
Unfortunately, the church is present afflictions
are not new.
In 1049 at the time of the riding St. Peter Day in the end was a cloistered monk.
He wasn't, yet at least anyway, a cardinal.
He wasn't a bishop.
He wasn't a Vatican official.
He was simply a priest.
He was a monk, a religious, a lover of God and souls, and he was a faithful son of the church.
He had no special credentials, but he wrote to the newly elected pope anyway and urged him to do what his predecessors would not
that is, reform the church, and specifically the clergy, who by all accounts were deficiently formed.
They were confused on the most basic of Catholic doctrines and who weren't simply morally lax, but in large numbers living in publicly sinful situations.
At the beginning of the second millennium, for example, it wasn't uncommon to see priests and even bishops living with a concubine.
There wasn't much shock or surprise amongst the faithful when a cleric showed up with someone he described as his wife, that he had attempted marriage after having already had taken a vow of celibacy.
Simony was also a big problem, vast numbers of the clergy rose to the ranks simply because they were able to purchase their offices, regardless of their moral rectitude or personal competency.
But worse than any of these, by far,
was that so many priests, especially there in the land of St. Peter Damian in Italy, were openly practicing a vice of the most unnatural kind.
In the 9th and 10th centuries, Europe was witnessed a very rapid cultural breakdown, things like war, disorderly immigration, the introduction of false religions into a Catholic and a Christian country,
These match with a clergy who had become less vigilant and much more effeminate led to a great darkness settling upon the church militant.
It was in this context that St. Peter Damian, a humble monk, emboldened by the love of God and neighbor, made a filial appeal to the Holy Father to clean up the mess.
But as is led to the pope, now known as the Book of Gamora, which there are several inserts in the bulletin, makes clear
The root of the problem was sexual perversion, namely the plague of homosexuality.
And what did St. Peter Damien recommend the Pope do?
First, the danger of this unnatural vice must be identified as the problem, and then it must be rooted out of the church and especially out of the priesthood.
All sin is dangerous, but St. Peter Damien feared that God would soon visit his wrath upon the church
because this sin, which belongs to a special category of sin known as the sins that cry out to heaven for God's judgment, had become so pervasive among the clergy and because the church's authorities overlooked it, they simply let it go and said nothing.
Saint Peter Damian reminded the pope of the temporal effects that this sin, terrible sin has upon a soul.
He said, and I quote, it is this sin
which violates sobriety, kills modesty, slays chastity, it butchers virginity with the sword of a most filthy contagion.
It befals everything.
It stains everything.
It pollutes everything.
And for itself, it permits nothing pure, nothing foreign to filth, nothing clean.
But that's only the earthly consequences.
the eternal consequences of his sin are far worse.
He continued, it prepares the soul, it prepares snares for the one who walks and for him who falls into the pit, it obstructs the escape.
See, that's how sin works.
Before a person falls into it, it's just a little snare, but after a person commissions a particular sin, especially those against the sixth commandment, it becomes a pit that is very difficult to find one's way out of.
It's best never to fall into it.
It prepares snares from the one who walks, and for him who falls into the pit, it obstructs the escape.
It opens up hell and closes the door of paradise.
It makes the citizen of the heavenly Jerusalem into an air of the Babylonian underworld.
From the star of heaven it produces the kindling of eternal fire.
It cuts off a member of the church and casts him into the voracious conflagration of a raging dehina.
How many times have I wondered
Where are the Saint Peter Damians of today?
Where is that voice in the clergy calling the world to conversion?
Where is the voice of Christ among his priests and bishops?
Of the good shepherd in the spirit of the saints, warning of sins, danger, and thundering against heretical teachings?
Where?
Where or where are the Saint Peter Damians?
It's as if the silence of the ninth and tenth centuries, like its sin, is being repeated in our day.
Now today there are some who think that silence is the best way to help things, but this would not meet with St. Peter Damian's approval.
Those who turn a blind eye to the sins of their subject, he warned the Pope, grant them a license to sin through their ill-considered silence.
We see so much quote, ill-considered silence in the hierarchy these days.
And it's true that in his pastoral rule, Pope St. Gregory, the great speaks of quote,
tempering speech with silence, but he wasn't endorsing neglect on the part of the shepherds.
The church's shepherds, he made clear, must speak with an advantageous truth, a truth that directs souls to Christ, a truth that leads them away from their sins.
But there's so much ill-considered silence these days and over the last few years.
Sometimes I wonder if the spirit of Saint Peter Damien will ever find a voice.
among the clergy today.
Today words like Saint Peter Damians are called hateful and divisive.
They are called a thing of bigotry.
We've been told this so often that many a Catholic has been swallowed up by the lie of the perversion.
Those who are promoting the disorientation have indeed disoriented no small number of the faithful.
But let's be clear, it's love
It's love, not hatred, that calls a sinner back to the truth.
It's time for the Christian faithful to be reoriented back to the gospel and to the truth of Christ, namely that the correction of a sinner when done in the right way and with the right intention is an act of love.
Again, St. Peter Damien's teachings can set us straight
For how am I loving my neighbor as myself, he said, if I negligently allow the wound by which I do not doubt him to be dying a cruel death to fester in his soul?
Seeing the spiritual wound, should I neglect to cure them by the surgery of my words?
And he would continue, arise, I implore you, wake up, oh man, who sinks into the sleep of wretched pleasure, revive at last, you have fallen into the by the lethal sword,
before the face of your enemies, enter into a constant struggle with the flesh.
Anyone who struggles with chastity should take heed of these words.
The path of virtue lies open to everyone, and freedom is there for the taking for all.
But it can only be laid hold of by prayer and penance or by that constant struggle that St. Peter Damian spoke of.
Finally,
Let's turn our attentions to the pope, that is, Pope Leo the 9th, to be sure and clear.
How did he respond to the pointed letter sent to him by one of his cardinals?
Now to be fair, Peter Damon wasn't a cardinal or bishop yet.
He was simply a priest.
How did the pope refer and respond to a pointed letter sent to him asking for correction?
First, it's worth noting that the pope actually did respond to the letter.
And secondly, he responded by acknowledging the reality for as it was.
He didn't say it was something else.
He noted that it was homosexuality and other perversions within the clergy that have to be eradicated.
And then he took very concrete steps to cleanse the priesthood of its filth.
He issued very severe, very severe penances on the clergy who broke their vows.
These were issued in the perversions
were greatly reduced and the church was cleansed.
In a letter of reply to Saint Peter Damian, Pope Leo IX stated his intentions without any ambiguity whatsoever.
He said, for he who does not attack a vice, but rather coddles it, is justly judged guilty of the death together with those who die by that vice.
May the spirit of Pope Saint Leo IX
once again live within the church right there besides St. Peter Damian.
Permitting sin as if it were normal and ordered or even virtuous is not merciful.
That is what is hateful.
Or as St. Peter Damian referred to such a way as cruel mercy.
It's never easy to enter into fraternal correction with someone.
And this is especially the case when a sin has been effectively normalized
and even made a right in society.
And yet if we pretend that disordered orientations are not sinful, if we affirm others in them, we are guilty of participating in that sin.
We become culpable for that sin too.
This is what happens when someone comes out and then is affirmed publicly by other people.
Those who show support are guilty of participation
In that sin, read the catechism of the Catholic Church on the back of that orange insert.
And I would ask this, are you willing to risk your own soul simply to spare your body and to spare yourself from a little of the world's reproach and indignation?
I believe the Lord said that we're to fear the one who could cast the soul down into Gehenna, not the one who can so torment to our body.
Finally, I think it's important to recall that some of the darkest centuries of the church's history have been transformed into some of her brightest.
The greatest saints were put into this world by God to fight decadence and sin and corruption.
St. Bernard of Clairvaux, St. Anthony of Padua, St. Thomas Beckett, St. Francis of Assisi, and St. Clair, St. Dominic, St. Thomas Aquinas, St. Juliana of Leige,
Just to name a few of the saints who were born into this world not long after the time period that I'm mentioning here, God put them in this world to help correct the church's course.
In other words, even though we are presently witnessing so much filth and corruption, so much cowardness and compromise at this present moment, there is no reason that we should not be men and women of great hope.
The church's future is bright.
very bright.
And if we let history be our guide, the church's not too distant history could be an immensely holy one.
But this is only the case if we do our part.
We can either be part of the problem, we can compromise, we can be cowards, we can be worldly, we can give our well selves to sin and think that it's normal, or we can be part of the solution.
We can strive to become saints.
Whatever sins may have been in the past, and whatever a person may be struggling with presently, it's time for all of us as Catholics to become serious about our holiness, about our Catholic faith, and about our heritage.
In the midst of this crisis, Christ needs something from you.
He needs something for you.
Like that image of St. Margaret Mary Alec Book, he's reaching out his heart.
He's extending himself to you.
What does he need from you?
He needs an intentional response and you have to know what it is that Christ is asking of you.
And then you've got to be on board with what Christ is asking from you.
If enough Christians can bring themselves to do this and to have this kind of love, then a repeat of the transformation that took place within the church a thousand years ago can be repeated in our own day.
And not only do I believe that this can happen, I fully expect that it will.
In light of everything that's going on, I sometimes reflect upon Paul's 13th chapter in his letter to the Romans.
It seems like an apt description of our time today.
This is, of course, where St. Paul wrote these words.
The night is foregone and the day is at hand.
Let us cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light.
Let us conduct ourselves, becomingly as in the day, not in reveling and in drunkenness, not in debauchery and licentiousness.
Not in quarreling.
Oh, there's so much quarreling these days.
Not in quarreling or in jealousy.
There's that too, isn't there?
But put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to gratify its desires.
Darknesses days are numbered.
They are.
I don't know what that number is.
It might be a big number.
It might be a small number, but darkness's days are numbered.
It does not have to continue on like it is.
I don't pretend to know what that number is, but I do know that the light is coming and that we're called to be children of light and to live as lights in the midst of a twisted and depraved generation to quote St. Paul.
The sins and the corruption
Don't have to have the final word.
The word made flesh has the final word.
The light that enlightens every man who comes into this world is dawning again.
This is assured.
But for our part, all of us, without exception, need to do what St. Paul said.
Put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh
are gratifies desires.
And the sooner that Christians do this, the sooner it will be that the church militant will rise from the present afflictions that she's experiencing.
In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, Amen.
We hope you enjoy this sermon entitled, Where Are the Peter Deimians of Today.
Our next sermon for today is entitled, Deliver Us From All Vice.
May the holy names of Jesus marry and Joseph be blessed now and forever in the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy,
spirit, amen.
The brothers and sisters of Christ celebrate the day.
Great doctor, professor of the church, Saint Peter Damian, magnificent champion then of the impeccable moral life to which all clergy in all epochs of all times must aspire to.
When this monk and reformer, Peter Damian, cast his critical gaze upon
The Catholic Church, way back in the 11th century, encountered a panorama of corruption that would have appeared daunting even to the most hardened observer of the modern ecclesiastical scene.
The house hold of God was in the catastrophic state of moral disorder, admitting of no easy remedy.
The crisis of the period in Damien's heroic response of his historical value to us today as we confront our own explosion of clerical advice and doctrinal infidelity.
The Church of Damien's time then had been rocked by almost two centuries of political and social chaos.
and the doctrinal ignorance, scandals, personal behavior of the clergy had reached intolerable levels.
Bishops and priests were involved in every kind of immorality.
Publicly, living with concubines or illicit wives are secretly engaging in homosexual practices.
Many had purchased their ordinations and their lucrative benefits
that accompanied them and spent their time pursuing scandalous secular amusements.
Go to the point then where an outraged laity began to rise up against ecclesiastical authority, sometimes in riotous, outbursts of violence that threatened the civil order.
Though, when behold, the pinnacle of the crisis was reached in the year
1032 with the election of a pope.
Pope Benedict IX, a youth of no more than 22 years of age, and the latest and worst in a long succession of compromised popes who served wealthy and powerful secular patrons.
Mercifully few details of Benedict's personal behavior have been preserved in the historical accounts.
But the Pope, this Pope, Benedict IX, is violent, content of a life.
His murders and other terrible deeds and his depraved and perverse acts in the words of the future, Pope Victor III, were widely known in his day.
However, in the year 1049, a new generation of reformers was on the rise.
beginning with the pontificate of Pope Saint Leo IX, and running through the pontificate of the great Hildebrand, Saint Gregory VII in 1073.
This is the time then of our champion to come to the fore, Peter Damian, who was famous for his life of austerity and penance, would act as a principal theorist
of the counter-revolutionaries against the Church's corrupt establishment.
Damien provided the vocal firepower for their reform projects, publishing a constant stream of open letters and pamphlets that took on the dimension of every conceivable theological and disciplinary
disciplinary controversy.
When it was necessary, he showed up in person to confront these corrupt actors and to humble them, including even the Holy Roman Emperor in self.
Much of Petitamian's 11th century form struggle seemed strikingly relevant to the modern situation in our church today, offering us
an incisive and useful critique of sexual immorality among the clergy.
Most relevant to our own age is Damien's famous book he wrote.
In Latin, he said, it's called Liber Gomorianus, or the Book of Gomorre, a long letter addressed to Pope Leo IX sometime between 1049 and 1054.
the book which is written against the epidemic of sodomy.
Raging, he says, like a cruel beast within the sheepfold of Christ, has deep resonance with us today and offers many insights into the contemporary crisis in the priesthood.
Damien's opening words, in fact, almost seemed addressed to the Church of the Day as he warns the Pope that the cancer of
Sadomitic impurity is threatening the integrity of the clergy itself.
It urges him to act with speed, adding that in his words, unless the force of the apostolic sea opposes it as quickly as possible, there is no doubt that when it finally wishes for the unbridled able to be restrained, it might not be able to halt
the fury of its advance.
Thus is the power of this monster.
Taimin was also concerned with the tendency of those in sexual perversion to seek promotion and advancement in the church and to recruit others into their lifestyle.
He said, why, I ask, O damnable sodomites, do you seek after the height of ecclesiastical dignity
with such burning ambition.
Why do you seek with such a longing to snare the people of God in the web of your petition?
Does it not suffice for you that you cast your very selves off the high precipice of evil unless you also involve others in the danger of your form?
Damien's rebuke blamed Lux ecclesiastical superiors for their silence.
silence with regard to clerical sodomy and regarded them as sharing in the guilt of those under their authority.
He says undoubtedly those who turn a blind eye to the sins of their subjects that they are obligated to correct also grant their subjects a license to sin through their ill-considered silence.
Later he added that he would rather be persecuted
than to fail to speak out, saying, indeed, I prefer to be thrown innocent into the well with Joseph, who accused his brothers of the worst crimes to their father, than to be punished by the retribution of divine fury with the high priest Eli who saw the evil of his children and remained but silent.
on one point potential canon quoted by Damien also directly addresses the case of the cleric guilty of child sex abuse.
That is, he who persecutes adolescents or children who is caught in a kiss or an other occasion of indecency.
Such a cleric, Damien says, was to be publicly beaten and loose his tonshire and haven't been disgracefully shaved
His face is to be smeared with spittle and is to be bound in iron chains worn down with six months of imprisonment and three days every week to fast on body bread until sundown.
For Damien then, the issue of homosexuality within the clergy was deeply related to the dignity of the priesthood.
This is why he was making these cries and appeals
because of this scandal connected with the dignity of the priesthood, and particularly the sacrifice of the holy mass, which he saw as defiled by the offending priest, who is unworthy of offering the sacrifice, asking if such a priest is barely permitted to enter the church to pray with others.
How was it that he can approach the altar of the Lord to intercede
for the brethren.
Look today then how many effeminate clergy are indifferent to the moral demands of the holy gospel.
Daemon thus declared that the practitioner of the vice is tormented spiritually and even physically.
However, far from dismissing those who appease such urges of immorality, Daemon
insists, as we do in the Catholic Church, that they are redeemable and implores them not to give up on hope.
There is always the possibility of conversion, seeking the mercy of Jesus Christ.
He expresses grief over the noble soul made in the image and likeness of the Lord and united with the most precious blood of Jesus Christ and adds
You who hear Christ the revival, why do you despair of your own resuscitation?
Hear it from his own mouth.
He that believed in me, although he be dead, he shall live.
Remember then, in conclusion as Catholics, we love the sinner made in God's image and likeness.
but cannot accept the evil immoral actions.
Such souls suffering the same sex attraction have a huge cross to carry in their affliction.
But they can save many souls if they embrace the cross.
There is always Mary, the Mother, Mary, the Mother of Mercy to help bear the weight of such a cross.
We call to mind the words of our Lady to Saint Bridget of Sweden, saying, I am the Queen of Heaven, and I am the Mother of Mercy.
I am the joy of the just and the door through which sinners are brought to the Lord.
Also, the words beautiful of the Lady to Juan Diego in Guadalupe, to those entrapped in this vice.
Am I not here?
I who am your mother?
Are you not under the shadow, my shadow and protection?
Am I not the source of your joy?
Are you not in the folds of my mantle, in the crossing of my arms?
Is there anything else that you need?
Mary then is truly the mother of tender compassion and our Mother Mercy.
Seek
the mother of mercy, then, if you are untrapped in this vise, and you can disarm the sweetness with sweetness, Jesus Christ, the King of justice, and live an upright moral life to prepare you for the eternal bliss of paradise.
Amen.
May the holy names of Jesus and Mary and Joseph be blessed now and forever.
In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, amen.
We hope you enjoyed this sermon entitled Deliver Us From All Vites.
Our next sermon for today is entitled The Book of Gomorrah and today's clerical sex abuse scandal.
brothers and sisters in Christ.
Today the church remembers the bishop and doctor Saint Peter Daemon who was also a Benedictine monk and one of the most influential reformers of the Middle Ages.
Saint Peter Daemon left behind quite a number of works and his influence with the Pope
was appreciated and he was appointed to be the papal legate for a number of missions.
There's one work of his which until recently has remained quite obscure in our day, but has recently begun to receive some popular attention.
And that is his book of Gamora, a work addressing the problem of
clerical homosexuality and pederasty within the hierarchy of the church.
In our day and age, this again has become a great scourge on the church, this same sin and scandal.
And yet, we live in an age of political correctness and an age of relativism, where the sin is not confronted
directly and courageously as it ought.
And as a result, we see the great devastation that has taken place around the globe in the church.
Entire diocese have been brought to the brink of, or not even to the brink of, but to bankruptcy.
The faith of many has been greatly damaged if not lost due to the
prevalence of this sin and this and the lack of courage really that Not only allowed the sin to Fester but to spread and go unaddressed and so even today The scandal was quickly dubbed a pedophilia scandal by the popular press and unfortunately by many in the church that same
language and rhetoric has been taken up, and that isn't to say that there are no cases of pedophilia or to diminish the tragedy of those cases that do exist, but the number of what is truly and clinically pedophilia is very minor in comparison to the great number of cases which are more properly called peterasty, which is
the sexual abuse of adolescent males by adult homosexuals.
And unfortunately, in our day, this has become a widespread abuse within the clergy.
And in the time of St. Peter Daemon, it also was a great problem.
And St. Peter Daemon, then, was one of the saints.
Really, he's the only bishop
Cardinal, doctor and father of the church, it seems to have addressed this problem with a treatise of its own, the labor Gomorianus referring to, that city destroyed by God in the book of Genesis, Sodom and Gomorrah, where these sins were also prevalent.
And so, Saint Peter Dayman addresses the problem, giving it
the title of the book on Gamora.
And St. Peter Daymian then was courageous.
In his day, it was perhaps politically uncorrect to speak of such things.
There's a certain kind of protectionism within groups where a brother should not speak against a brother.
And for many things, this may be acceptable or at least not quite as
damaging, but in the case of a homosexual click and a culture of sin that becomes insinuated within the hierarchy of the church, within the clergy, is certainly not something that for a false sense of mercy one can simply not deal with.
And in our day, this sin is not only tolerated for shame, but actually celebrated in the world
is trying to promote it as a positive value, something that society should embrace and should smile upon.
And yet, the moral law and nature have not changed and will not change, because God created this world with an order to it.
So St. Peter, Damien, then, among his many works, addresses this problem head-on in no uncertain terms, in very strong language, and with
a spirit of charity.
And that is something that those who would be apologists for the homosexual culture will claim that if you speak against that lifestyle, then you are in some way hating.
One of their popular slogans today is, no hate.
And therefore you can't speak of homosexuality as a sin.
And this is anything but love or charity.
that attitude that would coddle someone in their error and not correct.
According to Saint Peter Daemon, then this sin, which is also known as sodomy, is one of the gravest of sins.
In fact, the gravest.
And for the term sodomy, he applies that broadly to include all acts against nature that would want to satisfy sexual pleasure
by separating it from procreation.
So not limited only to homosexual acts, but to whole gamut of behaviors which in our day and age unfortunately are extremely prevalent.
The separation of sexual pleasure from procreation is almost a global practice today with contraception.
That's exactly the point of contraception is to allow sexual pleasure without the
cutting it off from procreation and life.
And of it, of this sin, St. Peter, Damien said, if this absolutely ignominious and abominable vice is not immediately stopped with an iron fist, the sword of divine wrath will fall upon us, bringing ruin to many.
Brothers and sisters, these words written 1,000 years ago, almost, are as true today as they were then, and we see
It a prophecy fulfilled in so many places in our church.
For years, for decades now, the church has been faced with a vocations crisis.
And there are many wise men within the church who recognize rightly that this crisis is the fruit of contraception.
This is the ruin that is brought upon us
when we go against God's order.
And then not only is there the problem of contraception to which many within the church are contributing, and of course, that applies primarily to those not in the clergy, but then there is this problem within the clergy, which has been unfortunately not dealt with courageously.
It's beginning to be addressed as a problem, but again, the whole tendency to
address the issue as a problem of pedophilia is a red herring.
It's a misdirecting attention from the real problem, which is the vise of sodomy, an author who has been writing on this subject for a number of years and had published, regarding St. Peter Daemon's work, the book of Gamora, some years before it was recently translated into the popular languages,
of Italian first and then in English pointed out that none of the recent popes in their comments about St. Peter Damian even mentioned that he wrote such a book which is a sign of an unwillingness to confront the issue head-on that St. Peter Damian dealt with this problem in the 11th century
and addressed his work to the Pope at the time and intended for the book to be distributed among the entire clergy, particularly the bishops, who have a grave responsibility to address the problem and root it out, shows that the problem of pederasty within the church is nothing new.
And yet, it's still a problem, a scandal as it was then, and
must be dealt with for the same reason why the church exists.
That is the salvation of souls.
That was St. Peter Damien's primary concern and should be ours today.
In fact, that is the supreme law of the church, the salvation of souls.
And false mercy is deadly if it allows a sin to be mistaken for a virtue.
or simply something harmless.
When a surgeon finds a patient with a limb that's infected, if he should balk from taking appropriate measures in the treatment of that infected limb, he very well could lose not only the limb, but also the patient.
Certain diseases, certain problems require decisive action, even though that action may be unpleasant and painful.
Quite often, and in this case, certainly is necessary in order to save not only the member, but the entire body.
And it's the supreme law of the church, the salvation of souls that should motivate us in view of such damage that's been done in our day.
So many victims of clerical abuse, so many souls damaged or lost among the clergy also, and so many faithful.
who've been hurt and who maybe have left the church, all of these people suffering from this sin and from this problem, injustice deserved that it be addressed head on.
And as I say, the church is beginning, at least in some aspects, to show a proper concern, the congregation for Catholic education, which is now responsible for the formation of seminarians and religious
has stated in recent times, both under the pontificate of Pope John Paul II, I think Pope Benedict XVI, and again a firm by Pope Francis, that the vice of homosexuality, a deep seated tendency to same sex attraction is a problem that disqualifies a man from the priesthood or religious life for quite obvious reasons.
No one is interested in condemning persons
And we should have compassion for those who suffer from the affliction of same sex attraction.
But in no way should we admit arguments that would be apologetic and cast homosexuality as a good to be embraced.
And we have heard these preposterous arguments put forth even in the last synod.
It was rejected, but still it was spoken.
And so this error is circulating still.
at high levels, and so we need to turn to the wisdom of the saints, the truth of the gospel and its scripture, history, and implore Saint Peter Daemon, once again, to visit the church with this truth so that it can be properly identified, the sin of peterasty homosexuality within clergy, and
denounced and rooted out.
For the good of souls, both of the clergy afflicted and of the faithful, near the Blessed Virgin Mary, Queen of Prophets, obtained the grace of courage for the hierarchy to deal with this problem.
We hope you enjoy this sermon entitled The Book of Gomorrah and today's clerical sex abuse scandal.
Our final sermon for today is entitled, Coming the Storms, where peace is God is.
In the name of the Father, of the Son, of the Holy Spirit, Amen.
My dear brothers and sisters, let us today reflect on this beautiful account of the Holy Gospel according to Matthew.
The disciples are with Jesus
on the boat and they are in the means of a tempest.
Jesus was with them.
What is truly striking in this gospel is the fact that Jesus is asleep and he was himself calm.
He never lost his peace.
Jesus is God through God and through man.
He knew perfectly what was going on, though in his human nature he was tired and was resting.
But that moment, that tempest, that arose suddenly was not disturbing him.
The disciples were frightened.
They were disturbed by that situation
And they were fearful.
They were crying out, Lord, Lord, save us.
We are perishing in the midst of this sea, the lake of Genesareth, where they were probably fishing while his disciples are now fearful and asking Jesus to help them
because they fear to lose their life Jesus is asleep.
It is very important for us.
We are sometimes ready to lose our peace because we are challenged by many situations in life and we fear to face something which is badsome, something that is not
what we wish and we lose our peace.
We start to cry out.
It seems that we do not believe anymore, that our faith is now going away.
But the example of Christ, the fact that our Lord is never disturbed by anything.
It means that He is the one in charge.
And if we rely on Him, if we have faith in Him, especially in these difficult situations, we have not to fear, because we are sure that our life is in His hands.
We belong to Him, and nothing can do any harm to our life, to our Christian life, to our physical life, especially
nothing can do any harm to our spiritual eternal life if we remain in Christ, if we live in Him, if we abide in Him.
This situation, this fear overcame, overwhelmed the apostles because they were lacking
in believing in Christ.
There were more in that moment interested in saving their life than in being with our Lord, being calm in Him.
This is the problem.
When we are more interested in our own situation, welding, earthly, material, welding, we forget that we belong to Christ.
that our lives belong to our Lord, and we start to cry, we start to ask our Lord to intervene, but if we remain in Him, if we make an act of faith, especially in that difficult moment, and we remain calm in Jesus, who is asleep, who is always calm, because He is God, He knows.
everything.
He knows the beginning, he knows the end.
If we do so, we remain in his peace.
And the greatest gift that we can have from him, the greatest moment that we can experience in life as we believe in Christ is to keep that peace, that divine peace where nothing can
disturbed our life, disturbed ourselves.
This is invitation to believe in Christ and to love Christ so that we can abide in Him and remain in that peace.
This is also the teaching that we have from St. Paul to the Romans today.
All commandments are necessary, but all commandments are
summarized in the greatest one, the love, the love of your neighbor, which is an expression, an extension of the love for God.
Charity is the very essence of Christian perfection to love God and to love your neighbor for God's sake.
Love, therefore, is the full feeling of the love.
If we remain in this love, we remain in that peace.
And the episode of the gospel is also showing Jesus' divinity, because as he woke up, he commanded the winds and the sea, and the came the gospel says a great calm.
Jesus is God.
He knows.
We are not able to understand what is going on.
We are fearful because we do not see immediately the situation and the outcome of that situation.
This is because we are fragile, because we are contingent, we are not absolute.
We exist, but our own existence is depending on someone else, on God.
Who is the one who knows?
The one who does?
The one who is in charge.
So let God be in charge of your life.
Let us trust Him with our faith, with our love.
Let us believe in Christ.
Let us hope for this eternal life.
Let us love Him and
we will experience that beautiful calmness, that gift of His peace, and where peace is the God is, in the name of the Father, of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.
Amen.
This has been Sermons for Everyday Living from the Station of the Cross Catholic Media Network.
Please pray three Hail Marys for the priest who preached in today's show.
To share this episode or to hear it again, find us on your favorite podcasting app under Sermons for Everyday Living.
Have a blessed day.